This is the second hands on exercises for
CSV data.
In the first, we saw how to import
a CSV file into a spreadsheet and
make a simple plot.
In this one,
we will learn how to filter data and
perform some aggregate operations.
We will begin by opening a terminal
window and starting a spreadsheet.
Next, we will load the CSV
data into the spreadsheet and
perform a filter over several columns.
Finally, we will calculate an average and
sum from the data.
Let's begin.
First, we open a terminal window by
clicking on the terminal icon in
the top toolbar.
We can start the spreadsheet
by writing oocalc.
Next, let's load our CSV
data into the spreadsheet.
We click on File > Open, CENSUS.CSV.
And click OK on this
dialog to load the data.
Column F in the spreadsheet is the state,
and
column H is the census population for
2010.
Let's create a filter that
just shows the data for
California, for
counties larger than one million people.
We can create this filter by first
selecting both the state name column and
the census 2000 population column.
Next we go to data,
filter, standard filter.
Here we change the field
name to be the state name,
the condition we leave at equals and
the value we use California.
This filters all the rows,
unless the state is California.
We then want to filter for
all the counties whose population
is greater than one million people.
To do that, in this second line here,
we change the operator to AND.
The field name should be
census 2010 population and
the condition should be greater than.
Then set the value to be one million.
And click OK.
We can see that all the data from the
spreadsheet has disappeared except where
the state name is California and
the population is greater
than one million people.
We can reset or remove this
filter to see all the data again
by going to Data > Filter.
Reset filter.
You can perform aggregate operations
on the data in a spreadsheet.
Next, let's perform some aggregate
operations over the data.
We can compute the average and
the sum of the data.
To do this, let's run these
calculations in a separate sheet.
Create a new sheet by clicking
on the green plus button.
To compute the average we select
a cell and enter =Average( and
then we select the data that we
want to compute the average from.
If we go back to sheet one.
We can select some of
the data from the H column.
So let's just choose several
counties in Alabama.
When we hit Enter,
it takes us back to sheet one and
we can see that the average is computing.
Similarly, we can compute the sum
by entering =sum, open parentheses.
Going back to sheet one and
selecting the columns we want to sum.
When we're done hit Enter and
the sum is computed.